---
title: The Mint Experience
date: 09/01/2026
---

Mint is often called the 'beginner' distro, but I think it would be as apt (haha) to call it the end-game distro. This is due to its simplicity; obviously, there are others which are even more simple, like [Zorin](https://zorin.com/os/) or [AnduinOS](https://www.anduinos.com/), but Mint's a good middle ground. To be completely honest, I think "windows-like" distros aren't the most satisfactory. This is because I want to be in two minds when using the different OSes; the "flow" is completely different between Windows and Linux. In my case right now, Mint with Cinnamon or Debian with Hyprland on my laptop for university, as opposed to Windows, which I now only use for gaming when required. When I first went back to Windows after being fully on Linux, I found myself opening up the terminal to install apps purely out of habit, which I know is possible but less than recommended on Windows. I was also overwhelmed by the amount of just pointless information I was given. While I definitely enjoy useless information, here it was things like 'breaking news' appearing on my Windows taskbar and constantly getting spammed OneDrive notifications. But this isn't a Windows hate post, so back to Linux, where even between distros I use different window managers as I'm using the devices for different things. My laptop runs Hyprland as I think it gives me minimal distractions, and it's easy to switch between workspaces, something I do often. It also stops me from using the mouse too much, which is great for a laptop. I use Cinnamon on my desktop as I use the computer to game; I don't need to switch workspaces as much as I'm lucky enough to have more than one monitor. 

## Software 
Mint gave me some issues. The Cinnamon edition is by default, as of writing this, on Ubuntu 22, which is some versions behind, and due to this and obviously being Debian-based, getting Hyprland to work on it was too much effort at the time, so I stuck with Cinnamon, a floating window manager like Windows. This has been alright, not great, just alright. The update manager on Mint is amazing; I love it so much. 

## Copy & Paste
So far, one issue has been that Cinnamon does not have a clipboard by default. This isn't the biggest issue in the world coming from Hyprland, but I believe it would pose an issue to some newcomers. I went with CopyQ, which has been fine, better than the default clipboard on Windows, but isn't particularly well integrated with Cinnamon and does not compare to KDE's clipboard. On Hyprland, I used cliphist.